[Music]
breaching is one of the most iconic
spectacular behaviors that humpbacks are
typically known for and to have that
occur within sighting distance of New
York City every time I'm on the water
and you have that experience it's
fantastic it could be a form of
communication it could be an aggressive
form of behavior between males sometimes
it can be a playful behavior you see
calves doing it I just find them amazing
charismatic curious they have these
interesting social lives but now that we
have whales coming back into New York
waters regularly and we have a lack of
important information about what they're
doing here and it's a great privilege to
be focusing our efforts now on learning
more about the humpback whales to better
protect them
we get that by using a small hollow tip
Dart
so what we'll do is I'll use the
crossbow and I'll take a shot at the at
the side of the humpback whale right
when it arches it back and the dart will
hit into the whale it's got a stopper
and then we'll bounce out the bit of
epidermis or skin and the blubber are
retained in the dart and we just drive
the boat by and pick up the the floating
the crossbow bolt
[Music]
when recovery can occur it's incumbent
upon us as a society to value that and
to work in ways with various industries
and government authorities to protect
those wildlife and wild places as we see
recovery of the humpbacks we also see
other large whales using these important
environments like the fin whale and even
the North Atlantic right whale when the
most endangered whales on the planet
migrating through waters of New York on
their on their spring and fall
migrations the reality is with the human
population growth around the world we
have to find solutions in ways that
wildlife and humans can and need to
coexist
[Music]